>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep
on to help uncover what
really what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
>> George Noory: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
An old fiend of mine
who investigates UFO cases
worldwide is with us James Fox,
documentary film maker.
You just keep going.
You're like the Energizer
Bunny, aren't you?
How are you, James?
>> James Fox: Good to see you.
>> Noory: Good to see
you again my friend.
I wish you-- How
did you get involved
in this true obsession
with UFO's?
>> Fox: I really wanted
to know the truth.
When a good friend of mine
started talking about Roswell
which was in the very
early 90s, I honestly felt
that he had lost his mind.
And-- But he's a real
good friend and then,
I was working doing video
production in San Francisco,
doing PSAs, Public
Service Announcements.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: And one of the guys
that really respected on the--
on the job site was
like, oh yeah,
Roswell really did
actually happen.
And he confirmed a bunch of
stuff for me and I thought oh.
So, I started looking into it
and here I am all these years
later of still wanting to get
to the truth and I feel like
I'm getting closer to the truth.
But the truth is a more elusive
than I expected it to be.
>> Noory: Is it like one
step forward, two steps back?
>> Fox: One step
forward, ten steps back.
>> Noory: That much.
>> Fox: Well yeah.
I mean--
>> Noory: That's frustrating.
>> Fox: Well it is and it isn't.
I mean, I really feel
like I'm getting closer
to knowing what the
government knows.
And we know that the government
knows the real and they have
for quite some time as early
back as the aspen
of the situation in '48.
But I'm beginning to believe,
and some people are going
to hate me for saying
this, that's--
it's more a question of what
the government doesn't know--
>> Noory: Doesn't know.
>> Fox: -- as opposed to
what they know is reasons
for secrecy 'cause you can't
let the cat out of the bag
and not have its going to open
up a flood gate of inquiries.
Could you imagine?
>> Noory: That's true.
>> Fox: Admitting
that their real
and then not having
all the answers.
I mean we don't really know.
>> Noory: You can't-- not
being able to back it up.
>> Fox: Yeah.
>> Noory: And tell if
it's dangerous or not.
Are they taking us?
Are they eating us?
Who knows what and your right
I think people would panic.
>> Fox: Yeah, you
know, I talked to a--
I've never addressed
the issue of abductions
in any of my documentaries.
>> Noory: I've noticed that.
I've noticed that.
How come?
>> Fox: Yeah, only because
I really feel like--
it doesn't mean that I
don't believe it happening.
As far as I've gone
is with Travis Walton.
It doesn't leave-- I don't
believe they are happening
'cause they I think they
probably are happening.
And you can imagine
that they are happening,
that's certainly one
plausible reason for secrecy.
>> Noory: Absolutely.
>> Fox: Can you imagine
the government disclosing
that information to
the general public.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: You know
that's-that's terrifying.
>> Noory: And whatever they
are doing genetically altering
people, hybrids, who knows.
Who knows?
>> Fox: Yeah, absolutely
one of the top reasons
for secrecy in that case.
But going back to
why I don't cover it.
Not to say that I'm
getting closer
with this next production "701."
We're going to get even closer.
We're going to go to close
encounters of the third kind.
We have a lot of amazing cases
that were getting
and delve into.
But because I feel like,
let's first establish the fact
to the mainstream that a
phenomenon is taking place.
It's global.
It's not anecdotal
evidence based on.
It's got real hard evidence--
>> Noory: Right.
>> Fox: -- and a
preponderance of hard evidence.
And, so let's-- let's
look-- sorry.
Let's let the public
get use to that first
and then we could take it a
step further and possibly go
into some of that other stuff.
>> Noory: And you're
right about mainstream.
I mean, historically they
have looked at UFOs stories
as the laughable kicker in
a newscast or the "ha, ha."
Then, you know, and I have been
in the news business,
James, a long time.
It seemed like they started
getting serious during the J.
Allen Hynek days.
And Hynek of course as you
know was the consultant
to Project Blue Book
which our government had.
You know, he came out with
his Swamp Gas Theory back
in the late 60s which
haunted him.
But he was a believer.
But people like that
started taking this very,
very seriously.
I think today mainstream
though it doesn't cover this
extensively as it should,
I think they are a little more
serious than they use to be.
Do you have that feeling?
>> Fox: Absolutely.
Yes I do. And I remember
being on set with Larry King
and it was the best
panel we ever put on.
>> Noory: I was with
you on one of them.
>>Fox: You were with
us on one of them.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: And then we did this
was-- this was unprecedented.
We did a show, a one hour long
show that was just so precarious
and so tenuous putting
the whole thing together.
I'd bore your listeners, your
viewers for hours talking
about the logistics behind it.
But we did a show where they
allowed me to pick everybody.
>> Noory: Yes, I remember that.
>> Fox: OK?
And then, they said well we
want-- we have to have a skeptic
but we won't have him on till
the last part of the show.
So we-- we had some
of the top people.
>> Noory: Was it Shermer?
Was he the skeptic?
Michael Shermer?
>> Fox: It was either
Michael Shermer that time
or this other guy named McGaha.
>> Noory: OK.
>> Fox: Yeah, at least
Shermer is very intelligent,
a very intelligent person.
McGaha was just that--
anyway, no comment.
We went to commercial break
probably the second time.
And we had-- and we
had a satellite feed
in with Nick Pope.
And we had a satellite feed
in with Callahan,
the former FAA guy.
>> Noory: All the heavy
hitters in morphology.
>> Fox: We had people
from the Bentwater's case.
We have the Colonel.
We had Governor Symington.
And Larry went to
commercial break.
And Larry kind of sat there
and he was, he was, "Wow,
this stuff's-- this
stuff's real isn't it?"
And every one was trying to
say, yes and the Colonel,
Deputy Base Commander at
Bentwater's yes, yes it is.
And the guy who touched
the UFO yeah.
Yeah it is, you know
and Larry just sat there
with this just sort of
look on his face like wow,
this one slipped
between the cracks.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: You know.
>> Noory: He used
to do UFO stories
when he was doing
mutual radio show.
>> Fox: Right.
>> Noory: And then,
once he got into CNN,
he really got interested in
this probably because of you.
It's a shame he's gone in
that we lost in this business,
a champion on a network level
who really was into the genre.
Nobody is doing that
anymore, James.
>> Fox: True, but Larry did say
to me at his house about a year
and half ago, "James, if you
get that piece of evidence
that we're all waiting
for, you come to me first."
>> Noory: He wants it still.
>> Fox: And I'll--
I'll make sure it gets
out there in the public eye.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: So we are pursuing
that evidence right now
which I'm very, very
excited about it.
It's a-- It's been sitting
in vault for 40 years
and were getting close to
getting our hands on it.
But the guys is really-- he
thinks the government is going
to kind of come after him.
He's not sure and
he is a wealthy guy.
And his like why I
should I take the risk.
But its official evidence and
I'm doing everything I can
in my power to get
my hands on it.
>> Noory: To get that.
>> Fox: Yes.
>> Noory: Can you?
>> Fox: I think it's
very probable, yes.
>> Noory: What do you
think it would say?
>> Fox: I think it would
say beyond of a shadow
of a doubt these things are
real and then it's not us
and official evidence.
It's something from
the civilians.
This came from Air Force stuff
and it was given to these people
by people in the Air Force.
>> Noory: Well you know when
you look at this universe
and you realize that there's
a vastness now of earth
like planets and we're
4.5 billion years old
in a universe that's almost 14
billion years old assuming they
have the ability to jump start
way before we do, my gosh,
they've got the technology.
>> Fox: That true.
They've been there.
>> Noory: They've come
up with a way to do this.
>> Fox: Yeah, think about a
million years advance from us,
think about ten million years.
>> Noory: Yeah, at our level--
at our level of progression--
>> Fox: Yeah.
>> Noory: Add a million
years to that,
God knows what we'll be doing
a million years from now.
Can you imagine what computers--
we may not even have computers.
They maybe in our
heads, who knows?
>> Fox: Oh no, I mean,
yeah when you think
about it a hundred years what
we've done and a hundred years.
I was actually just the
other day at a wedding party
with a woman sitting next to
me was a hundred years old
and she was actually 101.
She was talking about
what life was
like when she grew
up as a child.
>> Noory: Isn't that amazing?
>> Fox: Absolutely unbelievable.
People just forget so quickly
how much things have changed
in a hundred years.
This woman had a crystal clear
memory and she was telling me,
there wasn't any
roads when I grew up.
And she said you had to get
a train or a boat to get
from one location to
the next location.
And we were barely flying
when this thing was born.
>> Noory: Well, James
I was born in 1950.
The Civil War was less
than a hundred years old
which is nothing in
time, nothing considering
that Kennedy, it's been 60
years-- 50 years, I mean,
time just flies by so I mean
this is all possible this--
this ability to jumpstart
by a hundred years,
two hundred years,
things can happen.
Technology could
be unbelievable.
>> Fox: I-- We just did an
interview with Story Musgrave.
He's one of NASA's
finest astronauts.
>> Noory: Great astronaut.
>> Fox: Wonderful man
and he gave-- you could--
I could always gauge the level
of success with an interview
by there're people in room
and the production staff,
there's lighting guys,
there's audio guys,
you could hear a pin drop
during this interview.
And he talked about like, you
know, how far we've progressed.
What it was like to be in space
and the fact that the level
of conviction this man
has that life is teeming.
The universe is teeming
with life.
And then, it's more
advanced than us.
Some of them are going
around in spaceships.
There's just zero-- zero doubt.
And then he says, why
do you think, you know--
why do you think they
are not just landing
and making themselves,
you know, known.
>> Noory: Know.
>> Fox: And he is
like, you know,
James there were 35 wars just
last week alone, you know,
we are a very hostile,
very aggressive species.
And perhaps maybe once
we could come to terms
with that we might start
establishing contact.
But if was interesting that he--
>> Noory: Well, if I were
an advanced E.T. race,
I wouldn't want to
inter mingle with us.
I mean I would look at the same
thing going that's all these
people is kill each other.
This is crazy.
That could be a reason.
Let's talk about the
Hybridization Program,
the Abduction Program which
of course you don't touch.
But wouldn't it be interesting
if they are hybriding aliens
with humans in order to
replace this killing machine
that we have on earth
which would be us
with a more loving
type creature.
>> Fox: There's a
very well-known case--
well not that well known
in the UFO community.
But a pretty -- pretty
amazing case Ruwa, Zimbabwe,
1994 and there were
200 school children
and they had a saucer
land and actually a couple
of smaller saucers which I
know sounds outrageous at 10:30
in the morning in
Ruwa, Zimbabwe in 1994
where you had 200
school children
out in the field playing --
>> Noory: Witnessing this.
>> Fox: We don't know
exactly how witness there
but there were 200 school
children in the field.
A lot of people say,
oh it was 64 witnesses.
No, it was a lot more
than 64 witnesses.
The only reason why the
number 64 comes from is
that there were 64 drawings
that correlated to that.
>> Noory: And were
they all similar?
>> Fox: Oh yeah, but my point --
>> Noory: That'll
tell you something.
>> Fox: My point-- my point was
that the telepathic
communications these kids claim
to have had with these
beings was that we need to--
it's very-- it's one of
destruction on the planet
and that we need to be better
stewards on the planet.
We need to take care not get
technologed was the
word one the children used.
Technologed, is a new word.
>> Noory: A new word.
Hey, it works.
I've used words like that.
>> Fox: I know.
Strategery.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: Yeah, so you know,
maybe they were given a message.
And-- and I don't want
people to take my position
from the wrong position
that I don't believe a lot
of the accounts that
I've-I've talked
to with alleged abduction people
or the hybridization process
or anything like that.
I just feel like it's a--
it's a hot potato issue.
And unless you have very
solid evidence to back it
up its difficult to
present that in mainstream
because we are already
laughed at when were talking
about structured craft
of unknown origin.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Fox: Whizzing
around with impunity.
Take it a step further and it'd
be like the aliens are coming
and their pulling me out of
bed and something's like whoa,
let's go one step at a time.
>> Noory: Well, and it doesn't
help when you see a picture
of an alien shaking hands
with Bill Clinton, you know.
>> Fox: On the cover
of some tabloid--
>> Noory: Yeah, on the
cover of some tabloid.
It just doesn't work.
The Zimbabwe case what did
they describe these kids?
>> Fox: Unbelievable.
>> Noory: And is this on
the documentary "701."
>> Fox: Oh yes.
>> Noory: The new one.
>> Noory: Which we'll
talk about in a sec.
>> Fox: I get Goosebumps
talking about this one.
>> Noory: Tell me
about this one.
>> Fox: Well I thought that, you
know, it was somewhat ambiguous.
I thought that these
school children kind of--
like looked between the tree --
You know I didn't
really know the details
of it quite honestly.
>> Noory: Like maybe it was
drone or something, right?
>> Fox: Something far
off in the distance.
Maybe there was some
entity seen.
But they weren't
quite, you know, uh-uh.
We flew four of the witnesses
out from different parts
of the world just a couple
of weeks ago in Los Angeles.
Sorry, I get a tingly
talking about this.
>> Noory: That's OK.
It's a great story.
>> Fox: It's so unbelievable.
>> Noory: I can't
wait to hear it.
>> Fox: These-- Emily, Emma,
Selma and Liesel
>> Noory: And how
old are they now?
>> Fox: They are-- and
they are-- just turning 30.
>> Noory: OK.
>> Fox: Yeah, and incredibly
articulate and intelligent
and one of them hadn't
even told her husband
of five years about
the incident.
>> Noory: Wow.
>> Fox: Yeah, they came out
and I said, well why did you--
why did you women
decide, you know, to come
and participate in our project?
Why-- why now?
They said we really felt it
was time when we reached out.
This gentlemen Randall Nickerson
actually helped us coordinate
the whole thing.
But-- but any case these
school children the contact,
one of the women said,
I could have reached out
and touched the alien.
It was right there.
>> Noory: They-- they
saw a physical being?
>> Fox: Absolutely,
standing right here.
She said, "I could of
reached and touched it"
>> Noory: What did
they describe,
the typical alien gray?
>> Fox: She said that they
eyes were-- were mesmerizing,
that hypnotizing, that the
eyes it was all about the eyes.
All the children
talked about the eyes.
And I cannot tell you the
emotional state for these women
to talk about this encounter.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Fox: The eyes.
They kept saying these
big eyes, you know.
>> Noory: Big eyes.
>> Fox: And little
noses, slit for mouths.
Some of them said there
was maybe some black--
it was like a black
tight fitting suit on.
But that these-- that
they were right there.
And-- and one of
the girls all right,
so they have this big field.
There's a clearly
defined perimeter
of where the children are
not allowed to go any further
in the Africa 'cause they said
they were hunted dangerous
snakes and spiders.
And so you don't--
>> Noory: Animals,
grab them and you know.
>> Fox: Yeah.
You don't go beyond
these-- these logs.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Fox: These log
have the field.
So--
>> Noory: Even close to the logs
would be pretty bad I think,
you know.
>> Fox: Yeah, well one
of the girls was saying
that she was skipping along
the log as she did, you know,
kind of like right on the edge
of where she's allowed
to go and not go.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: And she's skipping along
the top of these logs going
from one log to the next.
>> Noory: Balancing herself.
>> Fox: And she looks over
on the left and there was one
of them sort of skipping
along jovially next to her.
>> Noory: With her.
>> Fox: With her.
They didn't know what
these creatures was.
But I really-- that
image of, you know,
these innocent children
and the innocence
of whoever these beings were
or wherever they came from.
>> Noory: Having nothing fun.
>> Fox: The whole
thing was benign.
It was-- there was no threat.
There was no feeling of danger.
It was this wonderful
little encounter, right?
And then the direct, you
know, face to face contact
and communication with these
beings there was a feeling of--
of calmness.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: And-- And comfort
and security and, you know,
there was enough-- they
said that the only thing
that was unpleasant about
the experience was the adults
reaction to the whole thing.
And then-- And then
trying to, you know,
the media they said
they felt that--
that they were used and that
they were just, you know,
used to extract as much
information about this
as possible and that
at the end of the day,
there were never really
given any therapy on how
to process what they
had experienced.
Do you know what I mean?
>> Noory: They just left them.
>> Fox: They just left them.
They just extracted what
they want out of them
and left the children so here we
are nearly 20 years later and--
>> Noory: Are they
affected by this?
>> Fox: Profoundly.
Profoundly affected by this.
Yeah, I mean--
>> Noory: I would be too.
>> Fox: Could you imagine?
I mean most UFO encounters
that we hear about is like oh,
I saw this light off from
distance or I saw this--
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: We're dealing
with a close encounter
of the third kind.
And it was-- and
it was undeniable.
>> Noory: Why do you think these
occupants made themselves known
to these kids?
>> Fox: OK, so and there
were no adults present.
And when the school bell
rang, the encounter ended.
So as soon as the adults--
>> Noory: So they
knew something, right?
>> Fox: They must
have known something
and there were sightings
in the area.
There were sightings actually.
There's a video footage
that Randall Nickerson shot
of a BBC correspondent
that talked
about he was a BBC guy Ruwa,
Zimbabwe at the time talked
about getting phone calls
from the local Air Force
or local, sorry, airport.
>> Noory: During the
same time period?
>> Fox: During the same
time period of encounters.
There was one actually
blocking the air.
There was a UFO apparently
blocking the airport.
So there was UFO activity in the
area prior to this happening.
Maybe these beings,
extraterrestrials,
whatever you want to call them
picked the school children
because of the innocence
and because of-- of not--
>> Noory: Maybe-- It just wanted
to see how they reacted maybe.
>> Fox: Well they could
determine a threat.
I think that, you know,
they would be the most
unjaded of all us.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: You know having
no opinion whatsoever
and having no position
whatsoever.
And it was the whole thing
it was very innocent.
And it was interesting that
the beings were relaying these
messages into these children.
>> Noory: And they
didn't hurt anybody.
>> Fox: They didn't hurt anyone.
They didn't take any one.
They were trying to warn us
of our behavior on the planet.
Fascinating, fascinating stuff.
>> Noory: Did the
kids see the craft?
>> Fox: Yes, they
all saw the craft.
>> Noory: What did
they describe?
>> Fox: They said it was a--
none of them said
disc or flying saucer.
Isn't that interesting?
They just said plate or made
the description like this,
a little bubble at the
top, lights around it.
I think one of them-- there
was one very large craft
about the size of a large house
and then three smaller crafts
and there was tall grass--
>> Noory: The mother
ship was the there.
>> Fox: There was taller
grass and so they said,
well we weren't sure if the
craft was just hovering right
above the ground or
it was on the ground
because there was tall grass.
>> Noory: And they
were all saying this.
>> Fox: Everyone
one of them, yeah.
And I said well how
far away was the craft?
Well I could have hit
with a rock, easily.
Yeah, so the craft
was right there
and the beings were right there.
And there were several beings.
There was at least
two and possibly more.
And there were some that
stayed back at the craft
and then there's
other's that came up.
And here's another thing
that's very interesting--
>> Noory: That's
is so fascinating.
>> Fox: Is that the beings came
right up to the logs knowing
that was the defining,
you know--
>> Noory: Yeah, they knew this.
>> Fox: Yes, the
beings came at the logs
and the children came
right at the logs.
But no, the beings didn't
come into their territory
and they didn't go into
the restricted territory.
They were right there and some
of the children were standing
on the logs and the creatures
were right in front of them.
>> Noory: And they got
in and then left, huh?
>> Fox: And then the whole--
but the whole thing
lasted like 15 minutes.
>> Noory: Which is a long time.
>> Fox: Which is a very long
time, very, very long time, yes.
And like I said it was a--
it was an amazing encounter
and we got a bunch of new
details on the case from these--
from the brave women
that are coming forward
and talking about this case.
Could you imagine not telling
your husband of five years?
>> Noory: Why?
Was she afraid?
>> Fox: Just afraid
of their reaction.
She said it's not the incident.
The incident was amazing.
I feel privileged to have had
that experience in my life
and knowing that
their out there,
knowing this stuff is real.
They're privileged.
>> Noory: Did you interview
them all together as a group?
>> Fox: I guess-- that's a
very good point because I said,
I kept saying guys,
guys we really--
we should really
shoot this in a way
where maybe we shouldn't
have all of them in the room
at the same time for their
first meeting in 20 years.
I'll tell you what why
don't we do the first part
of the interview 'cause
we had limited time.
We had a full day to
shoot Ruwa, Zimbabwe case.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Fox: Why don't we put
the girls around the table
and I'll be there with them.
And I'll give them
notepads, drawing paper
and let's just talk
about a little bit
about their experience and
have them draw things out
and have them exchange
information.
And as it turned out, there were
two women, it was either Liesel
and Salma or Emma and Emily,
sorry, I get the order right.
But it just so-- it just so
happens completely randomly
that they were together that
were standing right next
to each other during
the encounter.
And-- And one of the things--
>> Noory: That is amazing.
>> Fox: Oh yeah.
They were drawing
the same things,
and the logs and the creature.
All they were drawing
and the craft
and the lights around
these discs.
They were flying saucers,
they were all silver
and they reflected light.
>> Noory: And what time
period would this be, James?
>> Fox: 10:30 in
the morning, 1994.
>> Noory: 1994.
>> Fox: Yeah, and John Mack went
I guess within a week or two.
>> Noory: He went out there?
>> Fox: He went out
there with a camera crew
and he documented this whole
thing and really well actually.
>> Noory: So it's
an incredible case?
>> Fox: It is beyond
incredible case
and it's amazing how many
people don't know about this.
And there's so much more to
this case that was, you know,
there was a guy named
Randall Nickerson.
He kept mentioning his name
because he's been working
on this since 2006.
He's been to Africa
a couple of time.
He's been reaching out
to some other witnesses.
He's been finding out that
there were UFO sightings
in the area days before.
>> Noory: Is he a researcher?
>> Fox: Oh he's a
great researcher, yes.
And he went out and
got interviews
with a BBC correspondent which
unfortunately now is dead.
And John Mack, of course,
as you we all know--
>> Noory: Is dead.
>> Fox: Is dead.
And this guy is in possession,
Randall Nickerson, we cut a deal
where we got to license
some of his material
and get access to
these witnesses.
And it was just-- it's a
life changing moment for me.
>> Noory: That is amazing.
>> Fox: There must be sometimes
when you had been conducting
interviews with people
and thought well this
is an amazing time.
This is a really special.
>> Noory: And I'm right here.
>> Fox: Your right there
and your experiencing it.
That's how I felt during the
time of the Ruwa, Zimbabwe case.
And I just feel honored
to be a part of it,
honored to have the opportunity
to get this information
out to larger public.
>> Noory: Sure.
These children who
are now adults, James,
did they show emotion when
you were talking to them.
>> Fox: Oh, are you kidding me?
It was unbelievable.
>> Noory: "701," you call
your new documentary.
Where did you get the name?
>> Fox: Sorry.
>> Noory: What happened?
>> Fox: It was just
really profound.
That-- that was-- Everyone
in the room you could hear a
pin drop during the testimony
of these women.
There wasn't a shred
of doubt in your mind
that they were telling
the truth.
Not a shred of doubt.
You know when you feel that?
>> Noory: Yup, you could tell.
>> Fox: Oh yeah.
>> Noory: You know.
>> Fox: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, phenomenal but--
>> Noory: And for someone like
you who's devoted his life
to getting this answer.
That must have been pretty
profound for you too.
>> Fox: It was just--
I was having to pinch myself
during the interviews.
Just-- it was all hugs and
every one-- it was beautiful.
And they said do you know what
it's like for us to be in a room
of people that are
not ridiculing us.
We don't have to
be on the defense.
defend what we saw.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: That is and you know
a really wonderful thing
for people that have
experienced these type.
Could you imagine trying
to tell your parents
or your best friends or your
husband and have them looking
at you like, you know,
your smoking Wacky Tabacky?
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: You know.
>> Noory: Well, what was
it like for you being there
as this documentary
film maker picking
up on this incredible
story when all your life,
all you have been trying to
do is get answers to this.
This must have sent chills up
your arms like you were saying.
>> Fox: I'm reliving it a
little bit as I'm talking to you
about it and I'm
getting kind of teared
up about it 'cause it
was tough because--
>> Noory: You are.
You seem emotional.
>> Fox: It was the most-- it
was a defining moment in my--
in my research career
and a defining moment
in my documentary
film making career.
And I can assure you that
"701" is going to blow people
out of the water because
we're getting new--
we're picking really
solid cases,
cases that people have heard
of like the 1964
Socorro, New Mexico case.
>> Noory: We got to
get into that too.
>> Fox: That's a
close encounter.
>> Noory: That's an
incredible story.
>> Fox: Close encounter
of the third kind.
I've always thought
of this next film
as the real life close
encounters but cases
that we are uncovering
new material, new facts,
new evidence and cases
that could just blow people
out of the water I mean honestly
and the production values
and the people writing.
I mean, aliens script
writer editor--
>> Noory: Everything
you touch is A plus.
>> Fox: We have-- We have the
best opportunity right now.
It's just-- I feel honored
to be a part of this.
>> Noory: Tell about
the name, "701."
How did that happen?
>> Fox: Well we were-- we were
looking for a title that--
we don't like something
that hits you over head
with flying saucer or UFO.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Fox: I've always felt like
just to be a little bit discreet
about the whole thing.
And so we were sitting
around the table and some
of our co-producers were
bouncing some ideas around.
And one of the producers,
Ines, actually said what a 700?
And we thought oh you mean 700.
She said yeah, the numbers
that the Air Force
was unable to explain.
Then we found out
later that it was "701"
which we thought
was even better.
>> Noory: OK.
>> Fox: So it's not-- and
then people said oh well your
documentary film on the
cases in Project Blue Book
that remained unexplained and we
said yeah, I recovered a couple
of those and we'll do a little
hit of historical perspective.
But more importantly it's
what that number symbolizes.
And that numbers
symbolizes, the cases,
stubborn unambiguous cases
that the Air Force was
not able to explain.
And you know, they
weren't setting up in 1947
or when it terminated
in '69 to say all UFOs,
extraterrestrial
space spacecraft.
The question is are
any of them--
>> Noory: Are any-- But
something was happening
and they just didn't understand.
The Zamora case in
Socorro, New Mexico.
>> Fox: Yeah.
>> Noory: He was
a police officer.
Tell us what he saw.
>> Fox: Yeah, Socorro,
New Mexico.
Yeah. This is a phenomenal case.
This case was a turning
point for Dr. Hynek.
And-- and I-- I found this
out what we know in this
but I really found this
out actually by going
to the National Archives with
a gentlemen named Ray Stanford
who wrote a book called "Socorro
Saucer and the Pentagon Pantry".
>> Noory: This is
such a great case.
>> Fox: This case is phenomenal
and Tracy Torme is the one
that kept pushing
this case on me.
And I'd heard a little
bit about it of course.
I knew a little bit about it.
But I didn't realize to the
extent of what really went
down with that case until I've
been doing some more research
and reading and I have met
with some of the people
that written books on it.
And what makes this case
so spectacular in my view
and probably in the
view of those
in the Air Force was the fact
that there was physical evidence
to collaborate a
testimony of police officer.
And the police officers
credentials were by--
>> Noory: Impeccable.
>> Fox: Impeccable.
Everyone who knew him said this
guy is not one to make it up.
As a matter of fact he
wanted to play it down.
He didn't go on and try
to capitalize on this.
As a matter of fact he
barely even told his kids
about it you know.
And as a mater a fact when his--
when his kids were
making inquiries
to him he said you want
to know about the case,
talk to this man Ray Stanford.
>> Noory: He didn't
want to talk about it.
>> Fox: Well talk about
this read this book.
And-- and there was--
this is one thing
that were uncovering the Air
Force was adamant 'cause this
got out before the Air
Force was trying to--
>> Noory: Yeah, and this was
he saw an egg shaped craft.
>> Fox: OK, yeah,
I'll talk about that.
>> Noory: With little occupants.
>> Fox: So he's in hot pursuit.
It's late in the afternoon.
It's April 24th, 1964.
This is a small town
of Socorro, New Mexico.
And this police officer Lonnie
Zamora is pursuing a speeder
going through town in a Chevy.
I think it was a black Chevy.
And it the midst of the pursuit,
he sees a flash of light
which he thinks is
maybe perhaps coming
from a dynamite shack
or something.
He's not sure.
But he terminates the hot
pursuit to go and investigate.
He drives off road in a
dirt road and he's driving
up this hill and he sees what
he thinks is an overturning car,
excuse me, with a two
children standing next to it.
>> Noory: Aha!
>> Fox: So he's thinking of my
gosh, there's been an auto wreck
and I need to go help these
people out, these children out.
As he gets closer and closer
to this craft, this thing he's
like that's not a car and
those aren't children.
And he's driving his car
over and his looking--
>> Noory: Gosh, now
you're chilling me.
>> Fox: Yeah, and he's
looking over to the left and--
and he's looking off to
his left as his driving
up this hill down at this thing.
And there are two beings and one
of them sees him and locks eyes
with him and it's startled.
He said that they were doing
something with the craft
on the outside of the
craft and become startled
and then they scurry
around the back side.
And he continues driving
to get a closer look.
And when he got within I
think it's about hundred feet
of the craft when he parked his
car, the beings were no longer
but the craft was still there.
He gets out of his car he starts
making a B line towards the
craft and that's
when it fired up.
>> Noory: And it was gone?
>> Fox: It wasn't gone
immediately but it fired up
and it made a very loud roar.
And there was a-- some
sort of propulsion panel
at the bottom that's kind of
like rocket but not rocket
because the propulsion
when it hit the ground
like a rocket you expect dust
and stuff to fly everywhere.
>> Noory: Everywhere
and a little crater.
>> Fox: None of that,
none of that.
It wasn't any of that.
This-- this beam of blue light
went down through the ground
and penetrated the ground but
it didn't stir anything up.
But it made a loud sound.
And in when it got
to about 20 feet,
the thing went silent,
completely silent.
No more blue flame, nothing.
Like it switched to a
slightly different propulsion.
And then it slowly drifted
off and then it went
up about a 45 degree angle
and then disappeared.
>> Noory: Can you imagine
what he was thinking?
>> Fox: Oh-- oh yeah.
>> Noory: I mean unbelievable.
>> Fox: So this is
a police officer.
So, anyway, so his fellow
officers arrive on the scene
about a minute and half.
We are about to go--
we are about to go
meet with one of the--
>> Noory: The craft is gone.
>> Fox: The craft is
unfortunately gone.
His fellow officers
arrive on the scene.
The bushes are still smoldering.
There's sand that's
been vitrified,
turned to glass, right?
And there are four
imprints on the ground
of something very heavy.
>> Noory: Something was there.
>> Fox: Something heavy enough
to make very deep imprints
in the sand 'cause there was
this all of this evidence.
There was burnt debris.
There's bushes on fire.
There's vitrified sand.
There's all this stuff
and one of the guy,
Officer Jordan takes his
camera out and he shoots all
of these pictures and
documents all of it.
An hour and half later Richard
T. Holder, a military guy,
army colonel comes
from White Sands.
He gets there with a couple
of other people takes
Jordan's photographs
and says we'll develop them
and we'll get those back to you
and then takes over
the whole thing.
>> Noory: And the
pictures never came back?
>> Fox: Pictures
never came back.
And we have an affidavit
statement from Jordan,
Officer Jordan about that.
>> Noory: All right James, we're
going to continue on another
"Beyond Belief" show with
you about these stories.
They're truly remarkable.
I can't wait to see
the documentary, "701."
We're with James Fox documentary
film producer and thank you
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[ Music ]